---
layout: post
date: 2021-05-28 12:36
title: "Students’ emotion extraction and visualization for engagement detection in online learning (CLE33 IPSJ 2021)"
description: Abstract of KES 2021 paper.
comments: false
category: 
- publication
tags:
- KES 2021
---

<h5>Abstract</h5>
<p style="font-style: italic; text-align: justify;">Online learning is growing in various forms, including full-online, hybrid, hy-flex, blended, synchronous, and asynchronous.
Assessing students’ engagement without having real contact between teachers and students is becoming a challenge for the
teachers. <!--more-->Therefore, this paper focuses on analyzing online lecture videos to detect students’ engagement without relying on
learning management systems produced data. In this regard, an intelligent application for teachers is developed to understand
students’ emotions and detect students’ engagement levels while a lecture is in progress. Real-time and offline lecture videos are
analyzed using computer vision-based methods to extract students’ emotions, as emotions play essential roles in the learning
process. Six types of basic emotions, namely ‘angry’, ‘disgust’, ‘fear’, ‘happy’, ‘sad’, ‘surprise’, ‘neutral’ are extracted using a
pre-trained Convolutional Neural Network (CNN), and those are used to detect ‘Highly-engaged’, ‘Engaged’, and ‘Disengaged’
students in a virtual classroom. This educational application is tested on a 28-second-long video taken from YouTube consisting
of 11 students. The results are visualized for engagement detection using visualization methods. Furthermore, this intelligent
application, in real-time, is capable of recognizing multiple faces when multiple students share a single camera. Nonetheless, this
educational application could be used for supporting collaborative learning, problem-based learning, and emotion-based
grouping.<p><br><br>
<p><b><i>Keywords</i></b>: <span class="badge_module">emotion-aware learning analytics</span>,  <span class="badge_module">engagement</span>,  <span class="badge_module">intelligent learning system</span>,<span class="badge_module">lecture video analysis</span>,  <span class="badge_module">multimodal learning analytics</span>.</p>